gods, religion, praying, add ninja guitar-playing god
searching & hidden tiles, searching reveals monsters (in memory)
autopickup, config file
status effects

penalty for fighting unarmed with something in your hands?
make monsters fill in around the player (if i'm next to player and an empty space that's also next to player, and around
  me is a monster that's not next to player, move into the empty space)
Check all the Global.Rand(100)'s for correctness
document interfaces!
make LevelDown decrease stats
add a way to determine whether a creature is hostile, friendly, or neutral
update target selection interface so you can filter by creature type (hostile/friendly/neutral/all)
make character hesitant to eat raw flesh
allow attacking ground/ceiling
implement cloaks
add dipping (into potions, water...)
add the ability to break wands
handing choosing an above/below directional target
don't walk through invisible monsters while moving
make path tracing part of the Map class (?)
add critical hits?
add ability to view other levels in DisplayMap
save when moving between levels, load levels on demand, unload unused levels
redo formula for MaxHP/MaxMP gain (make based somewhat on race)
make the AI affected by carry weight (unable to move, etc)
fix bug where if an orc is on the up stairs, you'll be placed over it (prevent enemies from being spawned on stairs?)
in places where SPACE means page down, make it mean page down or close the menu/etc if we're already on the last page
make pressing characters representing an item class toggle all items of that class in menus (ie '!' toggles potions)
speed up (optimize) item cloning!
clone entities into memory as well as items
add ways to raise natural resistances
improve AI's RunAway() so it will go through doors more often
make time seem to pass in maps the player has not visited in a while
add other tiles like Town (eg. Cave)
make lava burn entities, ice freeze them, etc (on base think?)
move items burning/freezing/bursting etc to TrySpellDamage
make the map generators use only their own random number generators. or else make them all use Global.*
add HP (and MP?) base values for races (ie, stronger races get more)?
add animals to the town
allow stealthy kills (if attacking an unalerted creature and the blow is fatal, the creature doesn't scream.
  or, just make creatures scream on their turn [which should have the same effect])
amplify damage against unalerted creatures
add ability to jump to monsters in DisplayMap (like in ChooseTarget)
store gender and use it to change messages about "it" to "he" or "she" (eg, when examining creatures)
add random encounters